# version 1

## layout and file structure

The calendar data is stored in a `data/` folder

The data folder then contains a folder for every year.
Like for example `data/2023`.

Then every year contains x day files in the forat
`yyyy_mm_dd.md` where the timestamp can be generated by the `date '+%F'` command.
Note that the day files intentionally contain a redundant year since they are already in
a year folder. This is to ensure when working with these files manually that stuff does not
get mixed up or date files overwrite each other when years get mixed due to some error.

Note that only that `data/` folder is required all other folders and files are optional.
Every day file has to have its parent year folder. But not every year has to exist.
And existing years do not need all days covered by day files. Only days that have calendar entries
(events) should be created.


A sample layout could look like this

```
data/
├── 1970
├── 2022
│   └── 2022-04-20.md
└── 2023
    ├── 2023-04-03.md
    └── 2023-04-20.md
```

## day files

The content is a yaml header separated by ``---`` on the top and the bottom. Followed by a markdown body.
The header consists of some NON NESTED required and optional fields.

Required fileds:
 - version (has to be v1)
 - short_slug (16 characters max)
 - state (can be one of those: pending, progress, done, missed, cancel)
   the state field can turn calendar events into a todo list item
   that is not automatically done just because the date passed

Example

```
---
version: v1
short_slug: dentist
state: pending
---

# dentist

go to the dentist ...
