# version 2

## layout and file structure

The calendar data is stored in a `data/` folder

The data folder can contain as many profile folders as wanted
By convention the first unnamend profile can be called `default`
multiple unnamed profiles have no naming convetion.
The profile names should match the regex `[a-z]+`

The profile folder then contains a folder for every year.
Like for example `data/2023`.

Then every year contains x day folders in the forat
`yyyy_mm_dd` where the timestamp can be generated by the `date '+%F'` command.
Note that the day folders intentionally contain a redundant year since they are already in
a year folder. This is to ensure when working with these folders manually that stuff does not
get mixed up or date folders overwrite each other when years get mixed due to some error.

Every day folder then can contain event files in the format `event_name_snake_case.md`

Note that only that `data/` folder is required all other folders and files are optional.
Every day folder has to have its parent year folder. And every event file has to have its paret day folder.
But not every year has to exist.
And existing years do not need all days covered by day folders. Only days folders that have event files
should be created.


A sample layout could look like this

```
default/
└── data
    ├── 1970
    ├── 2022
    │   └── 2022-04-20
    │       └── dentist.md
    └── 2023
        ├── 2023-04-03
        │   └── ballet.md
        └── 2023-04-20
            └── dentist.md
```

## event files

The content is a yaml header separated by ``---`` on the top and the bottom. Followed by a markdown body.
The header consists of some required and optional fields.

Required fileds:
 - `version` (has to be v2)
 - `short_slug` (16 characters max)
 - `state` (can be one of those: pending, inprogress, done, missed, cancel)
   the state field can turn calendar events into a todo list item
   that is not automatically done just because the date passed

Example

```
---
version: v2
short_slug: dentist
state: pending
---

# dentist

go to the dentist ...
